=head1 2007 Medical Challenge Classification Package

2007 Medical Challenge Classification Package

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This package was created for the 2007 Medical Challenge. It's 
purpose is to classify radiology reports with their appropriate
ICD9CM code.

=head1 DOCUMENTATION

All programs have inline source code documentation written in pod style
and this can be browsed from command line as a man page or using the
'perldoc' command. For example, 'man classify.pl' or 'perldoc
classify.pl' will displayed the documentation for the classify.pl
program. Each program also has a --help option to provide information
about program options.

=head1 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

=item * Perl (version 5.8.5 or better) - http://www.perl.org

=item * WEKA data mining package - http://sourceforge.net/projects/weka/
 
=head1 GETTING STARTED

The classify program acts a wrapper program for the classifier that 
we used for our Medical Challenge submission.It runs our testing 
simulations and the output for the challenge submission.

The simulation randomly splits the training data into a training and 
test section (Default: 75% train, 25% test). The classification 
algorithm is run and the accuracy is determined. This is done for 
a specified number of iterations (Default: 1000). The accuracy 
for each run, the overall accuracy, standard deviation and  confidence
intervals are outputed to the destination file.

To run the simulation:

  perl classify.pl DESTINATION SOURCE

      where the SOURCE file is the Medical Challenge training data

The challenge submission outputs the test data (supplied on the 
command line) in the 2007 Medical Challenge xml format with the 
ICD9CM codes assigned to each instance.

To run the challenge submission:

  perl classify.pl --test TESTFILE --nocodes DESTINATION SOURCE 

=head1  CLASSIFICATION ALGORITHM

Our supervised classification system contains a feature 
extraction module (xml2arff.pl) that generates a feature 
set of the training and test data, and  a learning algorithm 
(WEKA) that learns the ICD9CM code combination from the 
training data feature set and assigns a ICD9CM code 
combination to each radiology report in the test data.

Our feature extraction module generates the following feature 
set: 
i) the unigrams in the radiology report with a frequency 
cutoff of zero and two, and 
ii) the overlap between ICD9CM descriptions and the words in 
the report. 

A unigram is a content word that frequently occurs in a 
radiology report labeled with a specific ICD9CM code 
combination. The unigrams were obtained from the training 
data. We do not utilize a stoplist.

ICD9CM codes have corresponding English phrases describing 
their meaning. We obtained these descriptions from the 
Unified Medical Language Source (UMLS) Metathesaurus 
MRCONSO table. We used the descriptions as boolean features 
in our classification system where a '1' indicated that a 
radiology report contained the description within the text 
and a '0' indicated that it did not. The descriptors were 
normalized by removing any text that came after a comma or 
semi-colon as well as removing the abbreviation NOS.

We use the Naive Bayes algorithm from the WEKA data-mining 
package \cite{WittenF99} as our learning algorithm.

=head1 PACKAGE ORGANIZATION

After downloading and unpacking this package, you should find following 
files/directories within the main directory.

=over 4

=item * README.pod

This file.

=item * classify.pl

A wrapper program that acts as a driver to run the our classifier 
that was used for the Medical Challenge. It runs our testing 
simulations and the output for the challenge submission.

=item * bin/

A directory of Perl programs implemented and used by classify.pl

=item * GPL.txt

A copy of the GNU General Public License, the terms under which this 
package is distributed.

=item * FDL.txt

A copy of the GNU Free Documentation License, the terms under which the
documentation of CuiTools is distributed.

=back

=head1 CONTACT US

This package is developed and maintained by Bridget T. McInnes, 
Ted Pedersen, John Carlis and Serguei Pakhomov.

=head1 SEE ALSO


=head1 AUTHORS

 Bridget T. McInnes
 University of Minnesota
 bthomson at cs.umn.edu
 http://www.cs.umn.edu/~bthomson
 
=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2007,  Bridget T. McInnes, Ted Pedersen, John Carlis and 
Serguei Pakhomov

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to

The Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

=cut
